hey everyone matt here from explaining
alternatives today we're here with Simon
and Shelby and they just moved out of
their apartment and they will be living
in this tiny home so we're just gonna
ask him a few questions and take a look
at their band we just moved out of our
apartment we just got rid of an absolute
mountain of stuff and we've managed to
fit our lives if only just into a 21
foot long blue van yeah when we moved
into our bachelor departments together
everyone was like you can't live in a
bachelor apartment with two people you
think there's no way and so now it's
just like oh you can't live in a van
together so it's just we're just getting
used to doing what people tell us we can
over and over again
so this is our 1992 dodge be 350 camper
man so we have a big freshwater tank
right here enough to get us through
about a week under here we have a
decently sized propane tank this is
where the poop comes from we have a gray
water and black water tank under there a
little ladder up here
use their back access panel for our
fridge this is vents for the fridge and
this is vent for our stove this is the
water heater down here and we have our
canopy
she definitely rides like a heavy whale
for sure the van trip planned for us is
a very loose idea what we're gonna do
for the next two years we're doing the
west coast first for six months and then
we're gonna do the come back here to
Ontario and work another season Walter
still traveling we still want to travel
a lot in Ontario we're co-worker wedding
season yeah we work as photographers
during the wedding season and then we're
gonna do the bees post and then I don't
know we'll figure it out
but so far the plan doesn't really have
any end to it
that's our 240 watt sharp solar panel
inside we have a 1000 watt pure sine
wave inverter from the battery bank we
have three batteries totalling 420 amp
hours of 12 volt that paired up with a
20 amp MPPT solar charge controller and
our 24 240 watt panel we basically just
never really have to worry about power
it's been really really nice we just run
power tools we run a coffee maker charge
our laptops and we just don't worry
about it so Simon will be working for
Airbnb most of our trip and we can do
that remotely and then I'm going to try
to continue my own artistic career and
meet up with different artists along the
road hopefully apply for some grants and
I've also been looking at writing jobs
online small writing jobs here and there
making money on the road is definitely
definitely a huge plus and the fact that
we're able to do that is really huge but
we're not relying on it either because
we've been saving and working towards
this for a while or we're setting
ourselves up so that we have enough to
do each leg of our trip before we ever
set out to go do it
so if why everything else fails we can
still do the trip I guess our first
inspiration for doing the van life was I
bought Simon a book from a store I was
working at called Maddy on things and it
was this guy who was travelling across
the u.s. right with his dog I think he'd
like just broken up with his girlfriend
it just got rid of everything job could
his job got a dog and traveled with her
and then she would just stand on things
and he had take pictures of her like all
across the US and it was the most
adorable book ever and then I think he
saw that and he thought we should do
that yeah yeah we should totally do that
it's just one thing led to the other and
I remember being like
laying in bed when I am feeling we got
to do this that's it like there's just
too many people in there having too much
fun and I don't want to miss out on this
so so uh everyone tells us like kiss
champ so old that we can't do the trip
with him that we should be leaving I'm
here and we're like there's no way in
hell though we are doing this trip
without champ like this this trip is for
sham yeah I like people but I like champ
I'm so yeah and then everyone that we
know that we follow that is doing like a
van trip with a dog is like you
absolutely have to do it with your dog
like it's so much fun it's so much
better with the dog so he's gonna sniff
everything and pee on everything
crap on all the pretty flowers so we
actually we got this tip from you so you
bought this shoe hanger from Ikea and
cut it in half and then the other house
gonna go on the other side and then you
can also hide stuff behind it there's a
little hole in the door there so here's
the bed so it can pull in during the day
and then it just pulls out all the way
to cure to become a double bed and we
just have a futon mattress up here right
now so we just fold it up when we have
the bed and during the day over here we
just have like dishes and food because I
was really pumped to it the coffee maker
because he drinks coffee every day we
have two things which is awesome
we bought this from Ikea too and then we
just cut it up here is all just food
more food down there right now our
fridge which we all and we also have a
little freezer this is our closet we
have everything hung and then I also
have a bin of clothes at the bottom too
much clothing microwave this is our
shower toilet and we just installed
another one of these here to put
toiletries in this folds up and then
this goes down and you get that bad
concert to cure pretty much takes up all
the space you have here and then they
also I really like this too is you can
stay here but you still have a seat belt
on both sides which is nice so a lot of
times when we're driving I'll sit back
here and like edit photos well Simon
starving so this one can only open like
this much cuz it's right underneath the
solar panel
so we open it a little bit just to get
like a crosswind but that one's really
awesome so you can open it and then a
fan turns on automatically starts going
we're really excited about like a lot of
the places we're gonna go I'm personally
super excited about waking up making
coffee and then walking out onto the
beach somewhere and just having a nomad
chill day I just set up my hammock play
fetch with the dog like I want to do
that for about 4 months yeah I'm scared
of like mechanical failures because if
you watched our videos we have had a lot
of those with the same degree it's a lot
of the same stuff it's like those little
misadventures that turn into amazing
adventures a lot of the best memories
you make are the ones you never intended
to in the first place I'm excited for
that just the open possibility of the
van trip because you can just go
anywhere anytime just do anything